---
title: "[Math] 2. Arzelà-Ascoli theorem"
excerpt: "Real analysis - 2"

categories:
  - Math
tags:
  - [Math, analysis]

permalink: /math/math2/

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
use_math: true

date: 2025-04-30
last_modified_at: 2025-04-30
---

## 1. Theorem
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arzel%C3%A0%E2%80%93Ascoli_theorem)
<br>

__Arzelà-Ascoli.__ For a compact metric space $K$, if a sequence $[f_n]^{\infty}_1$ in $C(K)$ is pointwise bounded and equicontinuous then $[f_n]^{\infty}_1$ is uniformly bounded on $K$ and contains a uniformly convergent subsequence. 

## 2. Proof
__Proof.__ First, we prove that $[f_n]^{\infty}_1$ is uniformly bounded in $K$. Let $\epsilon, \delta > 0$ be chosen s.t. $d(x, y) < \delta \rightarrow |f_n(x)-f_n(y)| < \epsilon$ for all $n$ from the definition of equicontinuity. Since $K$ is compact, there are finitely many points $p_1, \ldots,  p_r \in K$ s.t. for all $x \in K$, there exists some $p_i \in K$ s.t. $d(x, p_i) < \delta$. Since $[f_n]^{\infty}_1$ is pointwise bounded, there exists $M_i < \infty$ s.t. $|f_n(p_i)| < M_i$ for all $n$. Letting $M = max(M_1, \ldots, M_r)$, $|f_n(x)| < M + \epsilon$ for all $x \in K$. 
<br><br> Next, we prove that $[f_n]^{\infty}_1$ contains a uniformly convergent subsequence. Let $E$ be a countable dense subset of $K$ and $[x_i]$ be the points of $E$ arranged in a sequence. Since $[f_n(x_1)]^{\infty}_1$ is bounded, there exists a subsequence $S_1 = [f_{1, k}]$ s.t. $[f_{1, k}(x_1)]$ converges as $k \rightarrow \infty$. Now, we can construct $S_n$ s.t. $S_n = [f_{n, k}]$ being a subsequence of $S_{n-1}$ for $n \ge 2$, $[f_{n, k}(x_n)]$ converges as $k \rightarrow \infty$, and the order in which the functions appear is the same in each sequence. Then $[f_{n, n}(x_i)]$ converges as $n \rightarrow \infty$ for all $x_i \in E$. We note this subsequence $[g_i]$ to simplify the notation. We prove that $[g_i]$ converges uniformly on $K$.
<br><br> Pick $\epsilon, \delta > 0$ in the same way as the beginning w.r.t $[g_i]$. Let $V(x, \delta)$ be the set of all $y \in K$ s.t. $d(x, y) < \delta$. Since $E$ is dense in $K$ and $K$ is compact, there are finitely many points $x_1, \ldots, x_m \in E$ s.t. $K \subset V(x_1, \delta) \cup \cdots \cup V(x_m, \delta)$. Since $[g_i(x)]$ converges for all $x \in E$, there exists an integer $N$ s.t. $|g_i(x_s) - g_j(x_s)| < \epsilon$ whenever $i, j \ge N, 1 \le s \le m$. If $x \in K$, there exists $x_s \in K$ s.t. $x \in V(x_s, \delta)$ so that $|g_i(x) - g_i(x_s)| < \epsilon$. Now, if $i, j \ge N$, we have $|g_i(x) - g_j(x)| \le |g_i(x) - g_i(x_s)| + |g_i(x_s) - g_j(x_s)| + |g_j(x_s) - g_j(x)| < 3\epsilon$, which means $[g_i]$ is a uniformly convergent subsequence. 

## 3. Review
공식적으로 지금까지 들었던 수업에서 배운 정리는 아니지만 이름이 간지나서 들고 와봤다.(PMA 독학하면서 슬쩍 배웠던 정리) 내용이 어렵진 않지만 uniformly convergent subsequence의 존재성을 보장해준다는 점에서 매우 중요하다고 할 수 있겠다! 🐸

## 4. Reference
Rudin, Walter. Principles of Mathematical Analysis. Colombia: McGraw-Hill, 1976.